docs/source/usecases/s3denypublicobjectacls.rst, before:

.. _s3denypublicobjectacls:

S3 - Block Public S3 Object ACLs
=================================================

The following example policies will append a S3 bucket policy to every S3 bucket with
a policy statement called **DenyS3PublicObjectACL**  This will prevent any object
in these buckets from being set to public-read, public-read-write
,or authenticated-read (Any authenticated AWS user, not just local to account).
Being that S3 object permissions can be hard to track and restrict due to the huge
amount of S3 objects usually present in accounts, this policy allows you to prevent
the issue from occuring in the first place and helps maintain tighter S3 security
to avoid accidentally setting sensitive S3 objects to public.

.. code-block:: yaml

   policies:

     - name: s3-deny-public-object-acl-poll
       resource: s3
       description: |
         Appends a bucket policy statement to all existing s3 buckets to
         deny anyone from setting s3 objects in the bucket to public-read,
         public-read-write, or any authenticated AWS user.
       actions:
         - type: set-statements
           statements:
              - Sid: "DenyS3PublicObjectACL"
                Effect: "Deny"
                Action: "s3:PutObjectAcl"
                Principal: "*"
                Resource:
                   - "arn:aws:s3:::{bucket_name}/*"
                   - "arn:aws:s3:::{bucket_name}"
                Condition:
                  StringEqualsIgnoreCaseIfExists:
                     's3:x-amz-acl':
                         - "public-read"
                         - "public-read-write"
                         - "authenticated-read"


     - name: s3-deny-public-object-acl-realtime
       resource: s3
       mode:
         type: cloudtrail
         events:
           - CreateBucket
           - source: 's3.amazonaws.com'
             event: PutBucketPolicy
             ids: "requestParameters.bucketName"
         role: arn:aws:iam::{account_id}:role/Cloud_Custodian_Role
         timeout: 200
       description: |
         Appends a bucket policy statement to an s3 bucket when it detects
         a policy change to the bucket or a new bucket is created which
         will deny anyone from setting s3 objects in the bucket to public-read,
         public-read-write, or any authenticated AWS user.
       actions:
         - type: set-statements
           statements:
             - Sid: "DenyS3PublicObjectACL"
               Effect: "Deny"
               Action: "s3:PutObjectAcl"
               Principal: "*"
               Resource:
                  - "arn:aws:s3:::{bucket_name}/*"
                  - "arn:aws:s3:::{bucket_name}"
               Condition:
                 StringEqualsIgnoreCaseIfExists:
                    's3:x-amz-acl':
                        - "public-read"
                        - "public-read-write"
                        - "authenticated-read"

Commit message:

docs - show exempting service principals from S3 bucket policy lockdown example (#2916)

docs/source/usecases/s3denypublicobjectacls.rst, after:

.. _s3denypublicobjectacls:

S3 - Block Public S3 Object ACLs
=================================================

The following example policies will append a S3 bucket policy to every S3 bucket with
a policy statement called **DenyS3PublicObjectACL**  This will prevent any object
in these buckets from being set to public-read, public-read-write
,or authenticated-read (Any authenticated AWS user, not just local to account).
Being that S3 object permissions can be hard to track and restrict due to the huge
amount of S3 objects usually present in accounts, this policy allows you to prevent
the issue from occuring in the first place and helps maintain tighter S3 security
to avoid accidentally setting sensitive S3 objects to public.  Note the S3 bucket
policy has a NotPrincipal statement with several "AWS": arns.  These arns are owned
by AWS and they are used for the AWS logging services for Log Delivery Group, ELB Logs,
and Redshift Logs.  The ELB and Redshift arns are region specific
(sample includesus-east-1 and eu-west-1) so depending on the regions you are utilizing
you might need to add or remove addtional arns found here:
Redshift Log Accounts: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/mgmt/db-auditing.html
ELB Log Accounts: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/classic/enable-access-logs.html


.. code-block:: yaml

   policies:

     - name: s3-deny-public-object-acl-poll
       resource: s3
       description: |
         Appends a bucket policy statement to all existing s3 buckets to
         deny anyone except for the AWS Logging Services from setting s3
         objects in the bucket to public-read, public-read-write, or any
         authenticated AWS user.
       actions:
         - type: set-statements
           statements:
              - Sid: "DenyS3PublicObjectACL"
                Effect: "Deny"
                Action: "s3:PutObjectAcl"
                NotPrincipal:
                  "AWS":
                      - "arn:aws:iam::858827067514:root"
                      - "arn:aws:iam::193672423079:user/logs"
                      - "arn:aws:iam::210876761215:user/logs"
                      - "arn:aws:iam::127311923021:root"
                      - "arn:aws:iam::156460612806:root"
                Resource:
                   - "arn:aws:s3:::{bucket_name}/*"
                   - "arn:aws:s3:::{bucket_name}"
                Condition:
                  StringEqualsIgnoreCaseIfExists:
                     's3:x-amz-acl':
                         - "public-read"
                         - "public-read-write"
                         - "authenticated-read"


     - name: s3-deny-public-object-acl-realtime
       resource: s3
       mode:
         type: cloudtrail
         events:
           - CreateBucket
           - source: 's3.amazonaws.com'
             event: PutBucketPolicy
             ids: "requestParameters.bucketName"
         role: arn:aws:iam::{account_id}:role/Cloud_Custodian_Role
         timeout: 200
       description: |
         Appends a bucket policy statement to an s3 bucket when it detects
         a policy change to the bucket or a new bucket is created which
         will deny anyone except some AWS logging services from setting
         s3 objects in the bucket to public-read, public-read-write, or
         any authenticated AWS user.
       actions:
         - type: set-statements
           statements:
             - Sid: "DenyS3PublicObjectACL"
               Effect: "Deny"
               Action: "s3:PutObjectAcl"
               NotPrincipal:
                  "AWS":
                      - "arn:aws:iam::858827067514:root"
                      - "arn:aws:iam::193672423079:user/logs"
                      - "arn:aws:iam::210876761215:user/logs"
                      - "arn:aws:iam::127311923021:root"
                      - "arn:aws:iam::156460612806:root"
               Resource:
                  - "arn:aws:s3:::{bucket_name}/*"
                  - "arn:aws:s3:::{bucket_name}"
               Condition:
                 StringEqualsIgnoreCaseIfExists:
                    's3:x-amz-acl':
                        - "public-read"
                        - "public-read-write"
                        - "authenticated-read"
