docs/source/developer/tests.rst, before:

.. _developer-tests:

Testing for Developers
======================

Running tests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Unit tests can be run with:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ tox

Coverage reports can be generated and viewed with the following:

.. code-block:: bash

   (py27) $ make coverage

   # Open the reports in a browser

   # on osx
   $ open coverage/index.html

   # on gnomeish linux
   $ gnome-open coverage/index.html


Ratcheting down Python 3.6 Tests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We are in the process of porting Custodian to run on both Python 3.6 in
addition to 2.7. As part of this process, we record tests that are known to
fail under Python 3.6 in a file called ``ratchet.txt``, and we require these
and only these tests to fail under the ``py36`` environment during continuous
integration. If you make changes that fix some failing tests under Python 3.6,
then the ``py36`` test environment will remove the newly pasing tests from the
``ratchet.txt`` file and will fail with a message prompting you to commit the
changes to ``ratchet.txt``.


Decorating tests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``functional`` decorator marks tests that don't require any pre-existing
AWS context, and can therefore be run cleanly against live AWS.

Writing Placebo Tests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The `Placebo <http://placebo.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_ library is used to
record and replay AWS responses so that tests can run locally, and in a fraction
of the time it would take to interact with live AWS services.

In order to write a placebo test two helper methods are provided:

  - `record_flight_data` - use this when creating the test
  - `replay_flight_data` - use this when the test is completed

When first creating a test, use the `record_flight_data` method.  This will
contact AWS and store all responses as files in the placebo directory
(`tests/data/placebo/`).  The method takes one parameter, which is the directory
name to store placebo output in and it must be unique across all tests.  For
example:

  .. code-block:: python
    :emphasize-lines: 2,3

    def test_example(self):
        session_factory = self.record_flight_data(
            'test_example')

        policy = {
            'name': 'list-ec2-instances',
            'resource': 'ec2'
        }
            
        policy = self.load_policy(
            policy,
            session_factory=session_factory)

        resources = policy.run()
        self.assertEqual(len(resources), 1)

Now run this test using the following command to generate the placebo data:

  .. code-block:: shell

    $ nosetests -s -v tests/path/to/test.py

This may take a little while as the test is contacting AWS.
All responses are stored in the placebo dir, and can be viewed when the test is
finished.  It is not necessary to inspect these files, but they can be helpful
if the test is not behaving how you expect.

  .. code-block:: shell

    $ ls tests/data/placebo/test_example/
    ec2.DescribeInstances_1.json
    ec2.DescribeTags_1.json

If it is necessary to run the test again - for example, if the test fails, or if
it is not yet fully complete - you can run with `record_flight_data` as many
times as necessary.  The contents of the directory will be cleared each time the
test is run while `record_flight_data` is in place.

When the test is completed, change to using `replay_flight_data`:

  .. code-block:: python
    :emphasize-lines: 2,3

    def test_example(self):
        session_factory = self.replay_flight_data(
            'test_example')

        ...

Now when the test is run it will use the data previously recorded and will not
contact AWS.  When committing your test, don't forget to include the 
`tests/data/placebo/test_example` directory!

Commit message:

docs - readme use provider qualified names and resource docs updates (#2379)

docs/source/developer/tests.rst, after:

.. _developer-tests:

Testing for Developers
======================

Running tests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Unit tests can be run with:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ tox

Coverage reports can be generated and viewed with the following:

.. code-block:: bash

   (py27) $ make coverage

   # Open the reports in a browser

   # on osx
   $ open coverage/index.html

   # on gnomeish linux
   $ gnome-open coverage/index.html

Linting can be run with:

.. code-block:: bash

  $ make lint


Decorating tests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``functional`` decorator marks tests that don't require any pre-existing
AWS context, and can therefore be run cleanly against live AWS.

Writing Placebo Tests for AWS Resources
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Note: These instructions are only for recording data in AWS. For Azure, GCP, or
other cloud providers, see the corresponding documentation for information on how
to record data there.

The `Placebo <http://placebo.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_ library is used to
record and replay AWS responses so that tests can run locally, and in a fraction
of the time it would take to interact with live AWS services.

In order to write a placebo test two helper methods are provided:

  - `record_flight_data` - use this when creating the test
  - `replay_flight_data` - use this when the test is completed

When first creating a test, use the `record_flight_data` method.  This will
contact AWS and store all responses as files in the placebo directory
(`tests/data/placebo/`).  The method takes one parameter, which is the directory
name to store placebo output in and it must be unique across all tests.  For
example:

  .. code-block:: python
    :emphasize-lines: 2,3

    def test_example(self):
        session_factory = self.record_flight_data(
            'test_example')

        policy = {
            'name': 'list-ec2-instances',
            'resource': 'ec2'
        }
            
        policy = self.load_policy(
            policy,
            session_factory=session_factory)

        resources = policy.run()
        self.assertEqual(len(resources), 1)

Now run this test using the following command to generate the placebo data:

  .. code-block:: shell

    $ nosetests -s -v tests/path/to/test.py

This may take a little while as the test is contacting AWS.
All responses are stored in the placebo dir, and can be viewed when the test is
finished.  It is not necessary to inspect these files, but they can be helpful
if the test is not behaving how you expect.

  .. code-block:: shell

    $ ls tests/data/placebo/test_example/
    ec2.DescribeInstances_1.json
    ec2.DescribeTags_1.json

If it is necessary to run the test again - for example, if the test fails, or if
it is not yet fully complete - you can run with `record_flight_data` as many
times as necessary.  The contents of the directory will be cleared each time the
test is run while `record_flight_data` is in place.

When the test is completed, change to using `replay_flight_data`:

  .. code-block:: python
    :emphasize-lines: 2,3

    def test_example(self):
        session_factory = self.replay_flight_data(
            'test_example')

        ...

Now when the test is run it will use the data previously recorded and will not
contact AWS.  When committing your test, don't forget to include the 
`tests/data/placebo/test_example` directory!

Note: if it's necessary to delay CLI calls due to delays in the time it takes
for an attribute on a resource to be reflected in an API call or any other reason,
use ``self.recording`` to only sleep when recording json like so:

  .. code-block:: python

    import time

    ...

    if self.recording:
      time.sleep(10)
