docs/source/contribute.rst, before:

.. _contribute:

Contributing to Cloud Custodian
===============================

If you're interested in contributing to Cloud Custodian development, welcome! Please take a few minutes to familiarize yourself with the project and our expectations.

Developer install
-----------------

You'll need to perform a :ref:`developer install <developer>` and familiarize yourself with the tests.

Issues
------

We use `GitHub Issues <https://github.com/cloud-custodian/cloud-custodian/issues>`_ to report and track work on the project.

Discussion is also available on `Gitter <https://gitter.im/cloud-custodian/cloud-custodian>`_ and a `Google Group <https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/cloud-custodian>`_.

Contributor agreement
---------------------

Capital One requires that you accept and sign an agreement to license terms. See the `readme <https://github.com/cloud-custodian/cloud-custodian>`_ for the agreement. The agreements are directly derived from Apache Foundation Contributor License Agreements, ie. no copyright assignment.

Commit message:

docs - updates to readme and AWS Getting Started (#4004)

docs/source/contribute.rst, after:

.. _contribute:

Contributing to Cloud Custodian
===============================

If you're interested in contributing to Cloud Custodian development, welcome! Please take a few minutes to familiarize yourself with the project and our expectations.

Developer install
-----------------

You'll need to perform a :ref:`developer install <developer>` and familiarize yourself with the tests.

Issues
------

We use `GitHub Issues <https://github.com/cloud-custodian/cloud-custodian/issues>`_ to report and track work on the project.

Discussion is also available on `Gitter <https://gitter.im/cloud-custodian/cloud-custodian>`_ and a `Google Group <https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/cloud-custodian>`_.

Contributor agreement
---------------------

We welcome Your interest in Capital One's Open Source Projects (the
"Project"). Any Contributor to the Project must accept and sign an
Agreement indicating agreement to the license terms below. Except for
the license granted in this Agreement to Capital One and to recipients
of software distributed by Capital One, You reserve all right, title,
and interest in and to Your Contributions; this Agreement does not
impact Your rights to use Your own Contributions for any other purpose.

[Sign the Individual
Agreement](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/19LpBBjykHPox18vrZvBbZUcK6gQTj7qv1O5hCduAZFU/viewform)

[Sign the Corporate
Agreement](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeAbobIPLCVZD_ccgtMWBDAcN68oqbAJBQyDTSAQ1AkYuCp_g/viewform?usp=send_form)
