docs/source/aws/topics/securityhub.rst, before:

Security Hub
------------

Security Hub gives a centralized dashboard of security events across data feeds from many different
tools.

Custodian supports deep integration with security hub to support the following use cases.

 - post and update findings on any resource type to security hub
   See :ref:`post-finding action <aws.common.actions.post-finding>`

 - filtering resources on the basis of extant findings
   See :ref:`finding filter <aws.common.filters.finding>`

 - lambda execution mode triggered on ingestion of security hub findings
   `mode: hub-finding`

 - lambda execution mode as a custom action in the security hub ui. Note custodian
   security hub actions work against both findings and insights.
   `mode: hub-action`


Modes
+++++

Execute a policy lambda in response to security hub finding event or action.


This policy will provision a lambda and security hub custom action.
The action can be invoked on a finding or insight result (collection
of findings). The action name will have the resource type prefixed as
custodian actions are resource specific.

.. code-block:: yaml

   policies:
     - name: remediate
       resource: aws.ec2
       mode:
         type: hub-action
         role: MyRole
       actions:
        - snapshot
        - type: set-instance-profile
          name: null
        - stop


This policy will provision a lambda that will process high alert findings from
guard duty (note custodian also has support for guard duty events directly).

.. code-block:: yaml

   policies:
     - name: remediate
       resource: aws.iam
       mode:
         type: hub-finding
	 role: MyRole
       filters:
         - type: event
           key: detail.findings[].ProductFields.aws/securityhub/ProductName
           value: GuardDuty
         - type: event
           key: detail.findings[].ProductFields.aws/securityhub/ProductName
           value: GuardDuty
       actions:
         - remove-keys

Note, for custodian we support additional resources in the finding via the Other resource,
so these modes work for resources that security hub doesn't natively support.

https://docs.aws.amazon.com/securityhub/latest/userguide/securityhub-cloudwatch-events.html

The Amazon Security Finding Format is documented at https://docs.aws.amazon.com/securityhub/latest/userguide/securityhub-findings-format.html

.. list-table:: Mapping data in Cloud Custodian into the Amazon Security Finding Format (ASFF)
   :widths: 40 20 40
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Cloud Custodian
     - ASFF Attribute
     - Rationale
   * - derived from execution context: account_id
     - AwsAccountId
     - Direct
   * - metadata.json policy.actions.compliance_status
     - Confidence
     - User supplied value in policy configuration
   * - metadata.json policy.actions.confidence 
     - Confidence
     - User supplied value in policy configuration
   * - metadata.json policy.actions.criticality
     - Criticality
     - User supplied value in policy configuration
   * - derived value: current_time aka Now
     - CreatedAt 
     - Timestamp when the finding record was composed for the first time
   * - metadata.json policy.actions.description
     - Description
     - User supplied value in policy configuration
   * - metadata.json policy.name
     - GeneratorId
     - Policy is equivilent to a Rule
   * - digest of region, account_id, policy contents, and Resource Arn/Id 
     - Id
     - Enforces uniqueness by combinding policy attributes with resource attributes
   * - metadata.json policy.resource_type
     - ProductFields.resource
     - Direct
   * - fixed value: CloudCustodian
     - ProductFields.ProviderName
     - Name of project
   * - derived value from executable: version
     - ProductFields.ProviderVersioN
     - Direct
   * - fixed value: ACTIVE
     - RecordState
     - Always ACTIVE at Create/Update time
   * - metadata.json policy.actions.recommendation
     - Recommendation.Text
     - User supplied value in policy configuration
   * - metadata.json policy.actions.recommendation_url
     - Recommendation.Url
     - User supplied value in policy configuration
   * - resources.json attributes
     - Resources.Details.${Type}.*
     - Direct Mapping from columns in Describe output
   * - resources.json Arn
     - Resources.Id
     - Direct
   * - resource.json Tags
     - Resources.Tags
     - Direct
   * - metadata.json policy.resource_type
     - Resources.Type
     - Direct
   * - Hardcoded Fixed Value: "2018-10-08"
     - SchemaVersion
     - Only Valid value
   * - metadata.json policy.actions.severity_label
     - Severity.Label
     - User supplied value in policy configuration
   * - metadata.json policy.actions.severity_normalized
     - Severity.Normalized
     - User supplied value in policy configuration
   * - metadata.json policy.name
     - Title
     - Primary Identifer
   * - metadata.json policy.actions.types
     - Types
     - User supplied value in policy configuration
   * - derived value: current_time aka Now
     - UpdatedAt
     - Timestamp when the finding record update is composed

Commit message:

docs - aws security hub integration needs enablement w/ 0.9+ (#5685)

docs/source/aws/topics/securityhub.rst, after:

.. _aws-securityhub:

Security Hub
------------

Security Hub gives a centralized dashboard of security events across data feeds from many different
tools.

Custodian supports deep integration with security hub to support the following use cases.

 - post and update findings on any resource type to security hub
   See :ref:`post-finding action <aws.common.actions.post-finding>`

 - filtering resources on the basis of extant findings
   See :ref:`finding filter <aws.common.filters.finding>`

 - lambda execution mode triggered on ingestion of security hub findings
   `mode: hub-finding`

 - lambda execution mode as a custom action in the security hub ui. Note custodian
   security hub actions work against both findings and insights.
   `mode: hub-action`

Getting Started
+++++++++++++++

To post findings with cloud-custodian (v0.9+) you need to enable the
product integration from the security hub console. From the left side
menu click integrations, search for Cloud Custodian, and enable the
Cloud Custodian integration.

.. image:: hub-integration.png

Modes
+++++

Execute a policy lambda in response to security hub finding event or action.


This policy will provision a lambda and security hub custom action.
The action can be invoked on a finding or insight result (collection
of findings). The action name will have the resource type prefixed as
custodian actions are resource specific.

.. code-block:: yaml

   policies:
     - name: remediate
       resource: aws.ec2
       mode:
         type: hub-action
         role: MyRole
       actions:
        - snapshot
        - type: set-instance-profile
          name: null
        - stop


This policy will provision a lambda that will process high alert findings from
guard duty (note custodian also has support for guard duty events directly).

.. code-block:: yaml

   policies:
     - name: remediate
       resource: aws.iam
       mode:
         type: hub-finding
	 role: MyRole
       filters:
         - type: event
           key: detail.findings[].ProductFields.aws/securityhub/ProductName
           value: GuardDuty
         - type: event
           key: detail.findings[].ProductFields.aws/securityhub/ProductName
           value: GuardDuty
       actions:
         - remove-keys

Note, for custodian we support additional resources in the finding via the Other resource,
so these modes work for resources that security hub doesn't natively support.

https://docs.aws.amazon.com/securityhub/latest/userguide/securityhub-cloudwatch-events.html

The Amazon Security Finding Format is documented at https://docs.aws.amazon.com/securityhub/latest/userguide/securityhub-findings-format.html

.. list-table:: Mapping data in Cloud Custodian into the Amazon Security Finding Format (ASFF)
   :widths: 40 20 40
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Cloud Custodian
     - ASFF Attribute
     - Rationale
   * - derived from execution context: account_id
     - AwsAccountId
     - Direct
   * - metadata.json policy.actions.compliance_status
     - Confidence
     - User supplied value in policy configuration
   * - metadata.json policy.actions.confidence 
     - Confidence
     - User supplied value in policy configuration
   * - metadata.json policy.actions.criticality
     - Criticality
     - User supplied value in policy configuration
   * - derived value: current_time aka Now
     - CreatedAt 
     - Timestamp when the finding record was composed for the first time
   * - metadata.json policy.actions.description
     - Description
     - User supplied value in policy configuration
   * - metadata.json policy.name
     - GeneratorId
     - Policy is equivilent to a Rule
   * - digest of region, account_id, policy contents, and Resource Arn/Id 
     - Id
     - Enforces uniqueness by combinding policy attributes with resource attributes
   * - metadata.json policy.resource_type
     - ProductFields.resource
     - Direct
   * - fixed value: CloudCustodian
     - ProductFields.ProviderName
     - Name of project
   * - derived value from executable: version
     - ProductFields.ProviderVersioN
     - Direct
   * - fixed value: ACTIVE
     - RecordState
     - Always ACTIVE at Create/Update time
   * - metadata.json policy.actions.recommendation
     - Recommendation.Text
     - User supplied value in policy configuration
   * - metadata.json policy.actions.recommendation_url
     - Recommendation.Url
     - User supplied value in policy configuration
   * - resources.json attributes
     - Resources.Details.${Type}.*
     - Direct Mapping from columns in Describe output
   * - resources.json Arn
     - Resources.Id
     - Direct
   * - resource.json Tags
     - Resources.Tags
     - Direct
   * - metadata.json policy.resource_type
     - Resources.Type
     - Direct
   * - Hardcoded Fixed Value: "2018-10-08"
     - SchemaVersion
     - Only Valid value
   * - metadata.json policy.actions.severity_label
     - Severity.Label
     - User supplied value in policy configuration
   * - metadata.json policy.actions.severity_normalized
     - Severity.Normalized
     - User supplied value in policy configuration
   * - metadata.json policy.name
     - Title
     - Primary Identifer
   * - metadata.json policy.actions.types
     - Types
     - User supplied value in policy configuration
   * - derived value: current_time aka Now
     - UpdatedAt
     - Timestamp when the finding record update is composed
