docs/source/aws/topics/ssm.rst, before:

AWS Systems Manager
-------------------

EC2 Systems Manager
+++++++++++++++++++

Cloud custodian enables several use cases with SSM

 - filtering instances on the basis of their association to SSM
   See :ref:`ssm filter <aws.ec2.filters.ssm>`

 - executing actions on instances with ssm agent's installed.
   See :ref:`ec2 send command action <aws.ec2.actions.send-command>`

Ops Center
++++++++++

AWS Systems Manager Ops Center is an operations dashboard that
provides a central location to collect, triage, and remediate
operation issues related to resource in an AWS account. It
automatically pulls in contextual information from Cloud Trail and
Config to enable easier triage.

For more details on Ops Center see.
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/OpsCenter.html

Cloud Custodian has deep support for integrating with SSM Ops Center. With
custodian you can.

  - Filter resources by extant ops items associated to them.
    See :ref:`ops-item filter <aws.common.filters.post-item>`

  - Post new ops items for a resource from any custodian policy.
    See :ref:`post-item action <aws.common.actions.post-item>`

  - Manage ops items as a resource, , close or update ops items.
    See :ref:`ops-item resource <aws.ops-item>`


OmniSSM
+++++++

Custodian project maintains a tool OmniSSM for enabling cross account, and cross
cloud provider systems manager setups using the data center/hybrid mode support
of SSM. It provides for secure introduction (using signed metadata documents),
automated discovery and garbage collection using a set of golang lambda functions.

https://github.com/cloud-custodian/cloud-custodian/tree/master/tools/omnissm

Commit message:

docs - link and formatting fixes for aws topics (#4457)

docs/source/aws/topics/ssm.rst, after:

AWS Systems Manager
-------------------

EC2 Systems Manager
+++++++++++++++++++

Cloud custodian enables several use cases with SSM.

 - Filtering instances on the basis of their association to SSM.
   See :ref:`ssm filter <aws.ec2.filters.ssm>`

 - Executing actions on instances with an ssm agent installed.
   See :ref:`ec2 send command action <aws.ec2.actions.send-command>`

Ops Center
++++++++++

AWS Systems Manager Ops Center is an operations dashboard that
provides a central location to collect, triage, and remediate
operation issues related to resource in an AWS account. It
automatically pulls in contextual information from Cloud Trail and
AWS Config to enable easier triage.

For more details on Ops Center see.
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/OpsCenter.html

Cloud Custodian has deep support for integrating with SSM Ops Center. With
custodian you can.

  - Filter resources by extant ops items associated to them.
    See :ref:`ops-item filter <aws.common.filters.ops-item>`

  - Post new ops items for a resource from any custodian policy.
    See :ref:`post-item action <aws.common.actions.post-item>`

  - Manage ops items as a resource, to resolve or update ops items.
    See :ref:`ops-item resource <aws.ops-item>`

.. image:: opscenter.png

OmniSSM
+++++++

Custodian project maintains a tool OmniSSM for enabling cross account, and cross
cloud provider systems manager setups using the data center/hybrid mode support
of SSM. It provides for secure introduction (using signed metadata documents),
automated discovery and garbage collection using a set of golang lambda functions.

See tools section of the docs for more info.
