docs/source/overview/glossary.rst, before:

.. _glossary:

Basic concepts and terms
========================

Cloud Custodian works with the following basic concepts, terms, and relationships between them.

Policy - :py:class:`c7n.policy`
  Defined in yaml, specifies a set of filters and actions to take
  on a given AWS resource type.

Resource - :py:class:`c7n.manager.ResourceManager`
  Provides for retrieval of a resource of a given type (typically via AWS API)
  and defines the vocabulary of filters and actions that can be used on those
  resources (e.g., ASG, S3, EC2, ELBs, etc).

Mode - :py:class:`c7n.policy` (yes, ``policy``)
  Defines how the policy will execute (lambda, config rule, poll, etc).

.. code-block:: yaml

   mode:
     type: cloudtrail
     events:
       - RunInstances

Filters - :py:class:`c7n.filters`
  Given a set of resources, how we filter to the subset that we're
  interested in operating on. The :ref:`filtering language<filters>` has some
  default behaviors across resource types like value filtering with JMESPath
  expressions against the JSON representation of a resource, as well as
  specific filters for particular resources types (instance age,
  tag count, etc).

.. code-block:: yaml

   filters:
     - "tag:aws:autoscaling:groupName": absent
     - type: ebs
       key: Encrypted
       value: false
       skip-devices:
         - "/dev/sda1"
         - "/dev/xvda"
     - type: event
       key: "detail.userIdentity.sessionContext.sessionIssuer.userName"
       value: "SuperUser"
       op: ne

Actions - :py:class:`c7n.actions`
  A verb to use on a given resource, i.e. stop, start, suspend,
  delete, encrypt, etc.

.. code-block:: yaml

   actions:
     - type: tag
       key: c7n_status
       value: "Unencrypted EBS! Please recreate with Encryption"
     - type: terminate
       force: true

Commit message:

docs - readme use provider qualified names and resource docs updates (#2379)

docs/source/overview/glossary.rst, after:

.. _glossary:

Basic concepts and terms
========================

Cloud Custodian works with the following basic concepts, terms, and relationships between them.

Policy - :py:class:`c7n.policy`
  Defined in yaml, specifies a set of filters and actions to take
  on a given AWS resource type.

Resource - :py:class:`c7n.manager.ResourceManager`
  Provides for retrieval of a resource of a given type (typically via AWS API)
  and defines the vocabulary of filters and actions that can be used on those
  resources (e.g., ASG, S3, EC2, ELBs, etc).

  With the addition of more cloud providers, resources should be prefixed with
  the appropraite provider, except in the case of AWS resources which do not 
  require a ``aws.`` prefix for backwards-compatibility (e.g. azure.vm, gcp.instance).

Mode - :py:class:`c7n.policy` (yes, ``policy``)
  Defines how the policy will execute (lambda, config rule, poll, etc). Policies
  run in ``pull`` mode by default.

.. code-block:: yaml

   mode:
     type: cloudtrail
     events:
       - RunInstances

Filters - :py:class:`c7n.filters`
  Given a set of resources, how we filter to the subset that we're
  interested in operating on. The :ref:`filtering language<filters>` has some
  default behaviors across resource types like value filtering with JMESPath
  expressions against the JSON representation of a resource, as well as
  specific filters for particular resources types (instance age,
  tag count, etc).

.. code-block:: yaml

   filters:
     - "tag:aws:autoscaling:groupName": absent
     - type: ebs
       key: Encrypted
       value: false
       skip-devices:
         - "/dev/sda1"
         - "/dev/xvda"
     - type: event
       key: "detail.userIdentity.sessionContext.sessionIssuer.userName"
       value: "SuperUser"
       op: ne

Actions - :py:class:`c7n.actions`
  A verb to use on a given resource, i.e. stop, start, suspend,
  delete, encrypt, etc.

.. code-block:: yaml

   actions:
     - type: tag
       key: c7n_status
       value: "Unencrypted EBS! Please recreate with Encryption"
     - type: terminate
       force: true
